## Scripts used for LD computation

This folder contains the perl scripts used for LD computation. <br />

[LDaverage.pl](LDaverage.pl) computes LD as the average r<sup>2</sup> and D-value of marker pairs within a specified physical distance.<br />
Required parameters are <em>input filename</em> (usually the output generated by plink) and <em>bin-size</em>, which defines the size of the bin (in base pairs). Output is <em>bin-start, bin-end, average r<sup>2</sup>, average D-value and number of marker-pairs in the bin</em>.<br />
Use the command `perl LDaverage.pl <example_inputfile.ld> <bin-size>` to run this script. <br />

[chr_ld.pl](chr_ld.pl) computes the average LD value over non-overlapping windows along a chromosome or contig. A minimum number of marker-pairs for a window to be reported can be specified (default 40). <br />
Use the command `perl chr_ld.pl <example_inputfile.ld> <window-size> [minimum marker pairs]` to run this script. <br />
Output columns are: <em>chromosome_name, window_start_pos, window_end_pos, avg_r2, avg_D-value, #of_marker-pairs_in_window</em>.

[LD_chrom_end](LD_chrom_end.pl) computes the average LD value in bins of specified length (bin-size), at increasing distance form chromosome/contig ends. A file with chromosome or contig lengths must be provided. <br />
Use the command `LD_chrom_end.pl <example_inputfile.ld> <chr_len> <bin-size>` to run this script. <br />
Output columns are: <em>bin_start_pos, bin_end_pos, avg_r2, avg_D-value, #of_marker-pairs_in_window</em>.


[example_inputfile.ld](example_inputfile.ld) sample input file generated by plink and containing LD estimates.<br />
[chr_ld.out](chr_ld.out) output file generated by [chr_ld.pl](chr_ld.pl)<br />
[LDaverage.out](LDaverage.out) output file generated by [LDaverage.pl](LDaverage.pl)<br />
[chr_len](chr_len) tab-delimited file reporting chromosome name (1st column) and size (2nd column) 
